# TPAC 2023 Info Meeting (04.09.2023)

The objective of this meeting is to provide information about the WebAgents CG's agenda for TPAC 2023 ‚Äî and to help bootstrap our thinking for discussions at the TPAC.

## Proposed Agenda
- review the TPAC 2023 agenda
- position statements
- discussion points for the joint meeting with the WoT CG/WG
- expectations from the TPAC

## Participants

- Andrei Ciortea
- Antoine Zimmermann
- Nicoletta Fornara
- Rem Collier
- Simon Mayer

**Scribe:** Antoine Zimmermann

## Meeting Notes

Meeting notes from the TPAC info meeting of 31 August 2023: https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/Meetings/2023-08-31-TPAC-Info-Meeting

### WebAgents TPAC Agenda

https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/Meetings/2023-09-11-TPAC

#### F2F kick-off will be hybrid (9:30 - 11:00)

We will organise in a bottom-up manner: ask from the participants what matters to them. Follows a similar organisation as we did in the [Dagstuhl Seminar 23081](https://www.dagstuhl.de/23081).

10 (expected +1) position statements, presented in ~4 min each. Very little time but for people on site, possible to talk F2F after the session.

#### Joint meeting with WoT WG (11:30-13:00)

Start with the challenges proposed by Ege in the [WoT WG TPAC Agenda](https://www.w3.org/WoT/IG/wiki/Main_WoT_WebConf/2023_WoT_TPAC_Agenda#Autonomous_Agents_on_the_Web_CG_.28aka_Web_Agents.29) 

Identify task forces for next steps. We expect to listen.

Comments regarding the challenges:

**Nicoletta:** norms and policies are crucial for autonomy. Norms and policies are important for the ‚Äúsociety‚Äù of agents.

**Andrei:** policies are more about interactions between agents and a resource (e.g. a device), norms are about the organisation of agents together

**Nicoletta:** an important point is the possibility of violating (as opposed to, e.g., access control where violation is not possible).

**Simon:** try topic-clustering, for time efficiency

**Andrei:** work on a single scenario

**Antoine:** notes for discussing outside the meeting space

On the topic of "Manageable actions":

There are discussions on a new charter for a next WoT WG. "Manageable actions" are actions that take a long time, or may be going continuously. The question is how to "manage" (or monitor) them.

**Simon:** they (the WoT people) want to abstract away frm "Things" but they can‚Äôt because there‚Äôs "Things" in the name of the group! üôÇ

**Andrei:** an example of a lifecycle for us is that we start with a CG, then we create an IG, then perhaps standardisation (but it‚Äôs too early to say)

**Andrei:** at the moment the CG is a place for people interested in engineering web-based multi-agent systems. We need to identify use-cases. It‚Äôs an exploratory phase.

**Nicoletta:** I like to see what are the problems that the WoT are facing. Confront MAS models with real concrete problems. Also, see if the Web can be a good platform for MAS, and conversely, what specific problems are brought by "being on the web"

**Nicoletta:** Through the WoT group, try interact with companies and see what there problems are, find how conceptual models can solve them (instead of solving things one by one in ad hoc ways)

**Simon:** we should not worry about having enough real world application, there may be too many in fact!

**Rem:** IMO there is interest from the industry

### Position Statements
https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/Meetings/2023-09-11-TPAC/Statements 

### Joint Meeting with the Solid CG 

26th September (16:00 CET / 14:00 UTC) - confirmed

Solid was an important topic in the [Dagstuhl Seminar 23081](https://www.dagstuhl.de/23081). There was a working group dedicated to it, and Solid was mentioned elsewhere.

No meeting with Solid CG during TPAC

List of participants and observers on site at TPAC is there:
https://www.w3.org/register/tpac2023/registrants#meeting-243
