
# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Mar. 14, 2024)

## Agenda

   * Invited Talk: Patrick Hochstenbach (Ghent University) — Decentralized Scholarly Communication and Web Agents
   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Review of Task Forces
       * Manageable Affordances Task Force
       * Use Cases Task Force

## Participants

   * Ines Akaichi
   * Katharine Beaumont
   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Rem Collier
   * Stephen Cranefield
   * Alessandro Giugno
   * Anna-Lena Grauel
   * Patrick Hochstenbach
   * Ege Korkan
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Simon Mayer
   * Julian Padget
   * Alessndro Ricci
   * Yousouf Taghzouti
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Antoine Zimmermann
   * Jean-Paul Calbimonte
   * Patrick Hochstenbach

**Scribe**: Antoine Zimmermann

## Meeting Notes

Presentation of the speaker.

Talk slides: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AFTyGtKf3\_dv09I-\_vkTVGy32UwA1VK3zX1SQ57mVhk/edit#slide=id.g2c0e868aa33\_0\_121](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1AFTyGtKf3\_dv09I-\_vkTVGy32UwA1VK3zX1SQ57mVhk/edit#slide=id.g2c0e868aa33\_0\_121)

Linked Data Notifications: [https://www.w3.org/TR/ldn/](https://www.w3.org/TR/ldn/)

Activity Streams 2.0: [https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core/](https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-core/)

ODRL: [https://w3c.github.io/poe/model/](https://w3c.github.io/poe/model/)

AZ: Will the slides be made available?

Q&A

Ege: for policies, ODRL could be a solution. Maybe you need seomthing a bit different?

Patrick: we are looking into ODRL still investigating

Inès: first time joining the meeting

 ... about policies, there is a need for policy language, what do you need from it?

Patrick: we looked at what systems we need to execute ODRL policies; we've used N3 rules to model policies but maybe N3 is too powerful. We need to be able to exchange rules but if rules have executable code, then there are risks so we want to limit expressivity.

Simon: how do you deal with other non-functional properties? what about the trust issue? would your proposal create trust? would it be only trustable by computer scientists or also those who do not understand how the tech works?

Patrick: there is distrust from the general public because of fake science. We could have public logs so that, starting from an article, you can see if it has been peer reviewed, where it comes from, etc. This is currently very hard to do and only experts can tell whethr an article is trustable. Logs show all the value adding services used along the publication process. On a decentralised web, you need to have machine-executed processes.

Andrei: I see 2 topics of discussion. One relating to the policy taks force. One relating to having a domain specific language for agent programming / linked data programming.

Andrei: what would be the current state of development?

Patrick: COAR Notify received a 4 million grant from Arcadia to implement Event Notifications protocol in 4 years, 1 year done. First peer review systems are now in production mode. DSpace 8 will have support for this protocol. Also DataVerse in adding this functionality. All other project partners are now in Pilot phase ([https://www.coar-repositories.org/notify/)](https://www.coar-repositories.org/notify/))



AZ: please propose use cases using the UC template on Github

 ... we have our first proper UC proposal [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/36](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/36)



Ege: we thought about what would be the overall workflow. We have an issue on Github where you can respond/comment + gather requirements

Andrei: we will provide input to the WoT working group [based on the result of the manageable affordance TF]

    

        



        



        



    

    

        



        



        



    

    

        



        



        



    

    

        



        



        



    
