
# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Apr. 22, 2024)

## Agenda
   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Review of Task Forces
       * Manageable Affordances Task Force
       * Use Cases Task Force
   * Open discussion
       * How to evaluate use cases?
       * Timeline for the first CG report on use cases
       * Engagement

## Participants
   * Jean-Paul Calbimonte
   * Arthur Casals
   * Andrei Ciortea
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Eoin O'Neill
   * Yousouf Taghzouti
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Antoine Zimmermann

**Scribe**: Danai Vachtsevanou

## Meeting Notes

Notes from last meeting at: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2024-04-11.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2024-04-11.md)

### Review of Task Forces

#### Manageable Affordances TF (MA TF) 

Andrei: It is suggested that discussions about the use case requirements are continued in GitHub issue comments.

Request for input:
- Evaluation of scenarios
- Template for Requirements for manageable affordances: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/34](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/34)

Digital Rehabilitation UC: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/32](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues/32)

The UC is motivated by the need of monitoring the movement of patients. The workflow requires managing the affordances of monitoring devices, including checking the capabilities of the monitoring devices, assigning roles to the devices, exploiting the affordances, and monitoring the exploitation of the affordances, etc.

#### Use Cases TF (UC TF) 

Antoine: I would like to ask individually every person that submitted a scenario for the MA TF to think whether their scenario could be generalized to a use case for the UC TF.

Request for input:
- How to evaluate use cases
- What to do with the use cases, e.g., identify requirements

The Web of Things Web of Things (WoT): Use Cases and  Requirements could be used as a starting point for creating a structure of the UC TF: [https://www.w3.org/TR/wot-usecases/](https://www.w3.org/TR/wot-usecases/)

The "gaps" (see WoT UC and Requirements) related to a use case could relate to the reason why Web Agents would be useful in the use case. 

Andrei: Do "existing solutions" relate to solutions that do not employ Web Agents but solve a (similar) problem?

Antoine: It is not clear. Solutions may exist without employing Web Agents, but may be specific to a case, e.g. dependent on a particular human-readable API doc, and a static integration that lacks flexibility.

Antoine: There are also requirements concerning the knowledge that agents are assumed to have in a use case. For instance, in the Scheduling Medical Treatment UC, agents are assumed to know medical terms, geolocation etc. Such requirements related to knowledge should also be explored. Maybe an ontology should be created for such types of requirements, so that it is easier to instantiate knowledge graphs that capture such knowledge.

Andrei: Additional considerations should be made for agents that are not able to use knowledge graphs. For example, we could also look into the details of benchmarks such as [WebShop](https://github.com/princeton-nlp/WebShop) that consider Web-based environments for LLM-based agents.

Antoine: We could also look at how different approaches of "Web agents" complement each other. 

Summary of identified requirement types:
- Non-functional properties: adaptivity, evolvability, etc.
- Requirements for types of knowledge
- Low-level requirements (e.g., formats for representing knowledge, application-layer protocols) 

#### Engagement

Andrei: We suggest to use more the GitHub issues. We can also motivate people to fill in the form for content presentation in regular meetings: [https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScCx0H-cQO-MtCai-iR\_aGfiCabjr\_paYHrPlCAnJxBSa3ohg/viewform](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScCx0H-cQO-MtCai-iR\_aGfiCabjr\_paYHrPlCAnJxBSa3ohg/viewform)

Antoine: The mailing list could be used more as well because people will not be able to keep track of all the GitHub issues.

Andrei: We will send an update with the state of the discussions so far through the mailing list.
