# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (June 6, 2024)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Review of Task Forces
       * Manageable Affordances Task Force
       * Use Cases Task Force
   * Open discussion
       * Domain areas for Use Cases (see current list: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/wiki/Use-cases-for-Autonomous-Web-Agents)](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/wiki/Use-cases-for-Autonomous-Web-Agents))
       * Review the process for eliciting use cases

## Participants

   * Andrei Ciortea
   * L. Gustavo Nardin
   * Jérémy Lemée
   * Antoine Zimmermann
   * Yousouf TAGHZOUTI
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Simon Mayer

**Scribe**: Antoine Zimmermann \& Andrei Ciortea

**Notes from previous meeting**: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2024-04-22.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2024-04-22.md)

## Meeting Notes

### Introduction

In the [Meetings](.) folder on Github, there are links to meeting notes for previous meetings and there is a link to a form to propose topics, demos, etc.

Last meeting, we discussed the timeline for the UC TF report. We realised that the UCs are not going too well by relying on one individual providing the UC description.

We came up with a different process (discussed later)

Regarding TPAC 2024: in California and online. We will probably not have enough people to organise a F2F meeting there. Organise meeting for the next TPAC when we have reports from the TFs.

Simon: if it were not in California, I would have suggested the other way around (meeting in person to build the momentum) but with the location we can't. Could we attract new and more diverse participants by having visbility at TPAC 2024?

Andrei: We can try proposing a purely online event

Gustavo: Don't forget we have 9 hours difference between CEST and West Coast USA

### Review of TFs

#### Manageable affordances

Andrei: We are working towards the first CG report on manageable affordances. The template is available in the GitHub repo currently at this link: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/tf-ma-report/TaskForces/ManageableAffordance/Reports/report-ma-gap-analysis.html](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/tf-ma-report/TaskForces/ManageableAffordance/Reports/report-ma-gap-analysis.html)

In this report we will document the motivating scenarios submitted so far. We currently have 10 submissions: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues)

We are currently ellicitating requirements via GitHub issues. We already have requirements for several scenarios but still missing ones.

Based on the requirements, we will then look at existing standards to see if something is missing (gap analysis). We added a section for practical experience in the report

#### Use Cases

Antoine: We would like to move from having one individual writting down a full-fledged use case — which is a significant effort and does not seem tractable — towards more collective disucssions.

Instead of talking about one use case, we could split the discussion into different areas that are listed here: [https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/webagents-uc-tf-areas-a7ed?lang=en](https://annuel2.framapad.org/p/webagents-uc-tf-areas-a7ed?lang=en)

We might have missed something, but I think we are quite inclusive with this list.

Andrei: What we thought is that we could organise focused discussions on specific domain areas. For example, there is interest in agriculture and we have several CG participants involved in research projects with industrial partners working on this direction. Other areas where we could probably easily build a discussion is building automation or manfacturing.

Antoine: I want to propose a UC about e-Commerce. Agents that autonomously go to e-Commerce platforms to buy the cheapest, or the quickest delivered, etc.

Antoine: another possible UC is about trip planning.

Danai: Many requirements for the trip planning use case might fall under the healthcare use case.

Andrei: It could work best to start with UCs that come from industry partners.

Antoine: We should not dismiss UCs for consumers that do not come from industry.

Simon: Industry is not necessarily narrow.

Andrei: the point is not to dismiss non-iindustry based UCs but bring industry partners more proactively

Antoine: Just thought about a narrow use case, to go from point A to point B to perform a number of tasks, but you need to do this synchronized. This might motivate a multi-agent approach. Each agent performing one tasks: booking a room, buying a product before leaving, etc. And you do not want the thing you buy for your trip to be delivered at the start of the trip, the room to be reserved properly, etc. Maybe we can also involve the user because the agent is also doing something for the user — and the human user is part of the system.

Andrei: Simon and Jérémy could partiipate in duscussions related to agriculture togeher with Rem. We could organize a focused discussion in July. I would leave 1 month in advance to have enough time to announce the meeting to the CG. Perhaps other CG participants are working on agriculature use cases as well.

We can organise a ficused discussion in one of the July meetings (4th July, 15th July) or 1st August

Simon: we have partners from IntellIoT who are agriculture people. We can invite them to give a talk about the Agriculture Use Case from IntellIoT (and they are the main stakeholders from industry; name is Martijn Rooker).

We need to get more, and more diverse content. We're currently only looking at what is interesting for the people who joined the Dagstuhl seminars and the CG meetings so far. Topics like LLM-based agents, ML and agents, embodied AI, etc. would be very welcome and are underrepresented. We should invite more people working on these aspects.

Simon: We should write a position paper to Communications of the ACM about AI interoperability and the role that the Web could play in this. We should open this field to include natural intelligences, cognitive diversity, etc., but the core is that we argue that "the Web is a good thing for interop" - and since it seems to be good for agents inteop, it might be good for interop between other types of intelligence as well. In the April CACM, the editorial by Cerf mentioned AI Interoperability, along with a call to respond to this. The article is here: [https://cacm.acm.org/opinion/thoughts-on-ai-interoperability/](https://cacm.acm.org/opinion/thoughts-on-ai-interoperability/) - concretely, I propose that we write an "Opinion" article that summarizes our stance towards Interoperable Intelligences on and through the Web.

Andrei: We could invite people working on benchmark for learning agents to give talks. Some examples are MineDojo ([https://minedojo.org/)](https://minedojo.org/)) or WebShop ([https://github.com/princeton-nlp/WebShop)](https://github.com/princeton-nlp/WebShop)) which is also in the context of the Web. Simon agrees heavily.

Antoine: An update on the DKG workshop: anyone can show up, even if they are not invited. The only thing that differentates invited participants is that they can claim reimbursement. But otherwise, everyone at the EUMAS conference can be informally invited. So we don't have to worry about deadlines, but we have to decide what to ask from invited participants. Position statements would be good. Then, how much time we allocate to presenting position statements. Then again, what would be the practical work for the working session. The agenda says there we will work on a specific scenario, but we have to find it. We only have a few hours, so it should not be too complex, but not too trivial either. We may want to provide initial input — not start from scratch.
