# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (July 15, 2024)

## Agenda

   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Review of Task Forces
       * Manageable Affordances Task Force
       * Use Cases Task Force
   * Open discussion

## Participants

   * Alexandru Sorici
   * Antoine Zimmermann
   * Ege Korkan
   * Danai Vachtsevanou
   * Julian Padget
   * Luis Gustavo Nardin
   * Soheil Roshankish
   * Yousouf Taghzouti

**Scribe**: Ege Korkan

**Notes from previous meeting**: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/f48746e96a35b3c32a3780e3992e51f368ecba32/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2024-07-04.md](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/f48746e96a35b3c32a3780e3992e51f368ecba32/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2024-07-04.md)

## Meeting Notes

Antoine Zimmermann: we might not have a lot of attendance today. We have regrets from Andrei and Rem.

### Minutes Review

Antoine Zimmermann: Let's have a look together to the meeting minutes from last time. I had a look and they looked correct in regards to what is said.

Antoine Zimmermann: any objection?

Antoine Zimmermann: then approved

### General CG Updates

Antoine Zimmermann: Nothing from my side

### Review of Task Forces

#### Manageable Affordances TF

Ege Korkan: Requirements is the next target for the next meeting. Here is a list of all of them: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ascenario](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Ascenario)


#### Use Cases TF

Antoine Zimmermann: Nothing much to say from the Use Case TF. We have said that we will pick Agriculture as a domain. We wanted to meet mid July but Rem who wanted to lead the discussion is not available.

Antoine Zimmermann: We will set a new date for September or end of August but it is not set yet.

Antoine Zimmermann: Should we create a poll for a date?

Danai Vachtsevanou: Who will present about that?

Antoine Zimmermann: Rem was mainly interested. I will check who else.

### Position Statement from Yousouf

Yousouf Taghzouti: I have a PR at [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/52](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/pull/52) that is the position statement for the DKG workshop

Yousouf Taghzouti: it is about semantic content negotiation. E.g. html, rdf for the same resource. It can be done in different ways like header, queries. I can provide a video about it since I cannot attend the workshop in person.

Antoine Zimmermann: we ask participants to provide a position statement.

Yousouf Taghzouti: If you go to the last meeting's information, you can find position statements [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/Meetings/2023-09-11-TPAC/Statements](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/tree/main/Meetings/2023-09-11-TPAC/Statements) .

Ege Korkan: What is the difference to having an OpenAPI document?

Yousouf Taghzouti: you can do more advanced queries. For example, you can do negotiation on the profiles, languages and time.

Antoine Zimmermann: This is a general question actually. Why would we need TDs as well if we can use OpenAPI. With a vocabulary, you can include other semantic information as well. Here, we are not restriced to what is in a static spec.

(missed Danai's question)

Danai Vachtsevanou: The ontology is about negotiation. You said you can enhance it?

Yousouf Taghzouti: You can use additional ontologies like dimensions ontology. (shows an example document)

### Any other Business

Antoine Zimmermann: Do we have other topics to discuss?

Yousouf Taghzouti: Do you think I can use this vocabulary for HMAS interactions?

Danai Vachtsevanou: You can use it to describe negotiable and non-negotiable resources. My assumption is that you can use it.

Ege Korkan: Ok we can merge the PR right?

Antoine Zimmermann: yes sure. The position statement is accepted.

#### Questions

Soheil Roshankish: I did not catch the discussion about use cases in the beginning

Antoine Zimmermann: Our goal is to collect about autonomous agents. We only have two submissions so far. So we said that we should take another approach and thought that we can use more topic-driven discussions.

Antoine Zimmermann: So we picked agriculture. Also some from manageable affordances can be turned into use cases but they need some work.

Antoine Zimmermann: If there is no other topic, we can end the meeting earlier.

Soheil Roshankish: Do we have other meetings?

Ege Korkan: Ah the meetings seem to expire. We can extend them.

Antoine Zimmermann: Maybe we will have no meetings in August. We will see.

Antoine Zimmermann: Anything else?

Antoine Zimmermann: Meeting is adjurned and have a nice end of the day :)
