# WebAgents CG: Regular Meeting (Feb. 14, 2025)

## Agenda
   * Introduction
       * Introduction of new participants (if any)
       * Review minutes from the previous meeting
       * General CG updates
   * Quick review of TFs
   * Presentation:
       * Gaowei Chang on AgentNetworkProtocol
   * Open discussion
       * AgentNetworkProtocol

## Participants
   * Antoine Zimmermann
   * Rem Collier
   * Ege Korkan
   * Zhao Hanbo
   * Arthur Casals
   * Alessandro Ricci
   * Joshua Cornejo
   * James Waugh
   * Robert Winkler
   * Fabien Gandon
   * Anastasiya Danilenka
   * Gaowei Chang
   * Kai Kreuzer
   * Terry Payne
   * Stephen Cranefield
   * Jean-Paul Calbimonte
   * Wout Slabbinck
   * Jesse Wright
   * Katharine Beaumont
   * Julian Padget
   * Soheil Roshankish
   * Jeremy Lemee
   * Maud Stiernet 
   * Andrei Olaru

## Regrets
   * Andrei Ciortea
**Scribe**: Ege Korkan

Notes from previous meeting: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/commit/743c1b89796114c15e253e9e4aa20f87bbbc4709](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/commit/743c1b89796114c15e253e9e4aa20f87bbbc4709)

## Meeting Notes

### Introduction

#### New participants
- AZ: Who is new to the round?

- RW: I am in Robert, working in Deutsche Telekom on Eclipse LMOS ([https://eclipse.dev/lmos/)](https://eclipse.dev/lmos/))

- KK: I am a colleague of Robert, working on the same project.

- Zhao: Gaowei has invited me as I have been following his work for a while. I would like to learn more about it

- JW: I have been following ANP for a while and offered to help with the presentation today. Looking forward to meet the community

#### Review of minutes
AZ: Any comments on the previous minutes?

approved

#### General CG updates

AZ: We have reached 100 participants in the group! It is amazing

### Task forces

AZ: Any updates from the task forces?

#### Manageable affordances

EK: No nothing at the moment.

#### Use cases

AZ: No nothing at the moment.

#### Interoperability

RC: No but the following presentations will be all about that

### Presentation

**Presenter:** Gaowei Chang

**Title:** AgentNetworkProtocol (ANP): An Open-Source Protocol for Agent Identity and Agent Descriptions

GitHub repository: [https://github.com/chgaowei/AgentNetworkProtocol](https://github.com/chgaowei/AgentNetworkProtocol)

Slides: [https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-02-14-AgentNetworkProtocol.pdf](https://github.com/w3c-cg/webagents/blob/main/Meetings/RegularMeetings/2025-02-14-AgentNetworkProtocol.pdf)

JW: We are aiming for building the HTTP of the Agentic Web era
... we will cover a couple of topics. (presents the agenda)
... We believe that agents will change how we use the internet and software, agents instead of humans to internet, agents instead of saas
.... agents will be interconnected and they should communicate over protocols. Current use of computers is just transitional
... We are going to define how agents access the internet. It is not just a protocol, it is an architecture
... we have 3 layers in ANP: Identity and Encrypted Communication Layer (DID W3C); Meta-protocol Layer ; Application protocol layer
... let's look at the core layers in detail. Identity
... what is DID first: DIDs are a W3C Rec since 2022 and we picked it as the core.
... DID method: we favor feasbility over full decent. The protocol is prefixd with wba. (shows a simple did resolution)
... We can leverage HTTP and the web infrastructure. As you can see, we use HTTP methods in the background
... (shows the identification process with a sequence diagram)
... We have unresolved issues: How to do granular access, how to know that sensitive actions are approved, and how to differentiate between platform and human giving access
... let's explain ADD (TODO)
... ADP Design is based on linked data, schema.org and separation of the spec into core and domains, such as a coffee shop
... here we see the ADD for the coffee shop example.
.... When we look at the interaction flow, we see how DID is resolved to AD and how the interaction happens afters
... we think that there will be a data network in the future.
... Now let's see a live demo with the coffee shop example.
... we start with a chat interface. While that is running, we can visualize how the DID document looks like
... Now the agents has returned 3 options for me to choose. 
... ANP is open source and we have completed multiple parts of it already.
... the historical meeting records of WebAgents provide valuable resources and inspiration for our design.
... we would like to collaborate

### Open discussion

Zhao: What parts are centralised and what are not?

JW: Everything in the presentation was decentralized. Gaowei?

JC: The DID resolution happens centrally. It is not a distributed resolution at the moment, so not like DNS.

JC: we don't have such a registry at the moment though, so the current approach makes sense

JC: I would also recommend starting with Turtle rather than starting with JSON and turning into it. Nodes are forgotten etc.

JC: I see some parts that are not addressed 

EK: How do agree onb the meaning of "coffee"? How did the personal agent understood that you want coffee and found another agent that provides the same service? Matching semantic annotations for the latter and NLP for the former?

JW: It is based on predefined knowledge.

GC: We use schema.org, if it doesn't exist we define it ourselves.

JC: I have pasted a link in the chat that can help

RW: DID is used for authenticate but how about authorization? How to group agents in a decentralized network? Do you need additional protocols? How to configure them etc.

GC: (Ege: Not sure what the answer was here)

RW: Do you standardize the interface descriptions in the DID? Can you use anything?

JC: You can use anything.

RW: So it is open

GC: Yes

RW: But you need to implement them though. You cannot implement all description format and protocols? Do you plan to standardize it and reduce.

JW: A bit like last question, you may not know that description language. OpenAPI can be known but not everything.

RW: Also HTTP is not suitable for everything, real time or long running operations. That is why we picked WoT to support multiple protocols for different use cases.

RC: Would be nice to have a presentation by the LMOS people in a future WebAgents meeting

RW: Yes sure. Ege contacted me already for a WoT CG presentation. Maybe merge them?

EK: Yes sure.

## Closing Remarks

AZ: We have a presentation from Joshua. What is the title?

JC: It is on the 24th and about authorization topic. I have sent an email about it. 

AZ: Ok we will announce it soon. We will have other occasions to talk about ANP. This was a great presentation! I hope 

JW: There is a discord server in the github repository. You can reach out there.

AZ: Would be nice to interact with agents on Discord

RW: I get kicked out of Discord channel. Is it normal?

JW: I get the same issue too. We will try to fix it
